The third type of API that we're going to be looking at is one that allows you to actually log in to
a web system and then do things within that.
And we're going to be doing that with the Twitter API which allows you to do pretty much anything you
can do on Twitter so we can read people's tweets.
We can tweet out.
We can send direct messages.
We can do all sorts of things.
So this is a level above the Google Maps API in terms of interactivity.
We're not just pulling information here.
We're actually making things happen as well.
You might imagine it's there for a little bit more complicated but don't worry I'll guide you through
it step by step.
So first off we need to create a Twitter developer account if you don't already have one.
So go to dev dot Twitter dot com and then click sign in.
Now if you have a Twitter account you can sign in there but I'm just going to show you the process from
scratch so you can see the whole thing.
So I'll start off with my name and then Rohrback co-star's dot com and then type a password.
All right I'll skip the phone validation for now and then I'll use one of these slightly horrendous
looking suggestions
and I'll just say that one last pass in case I need to come back to it later.
All right so because I've created an account it's taken me back to Twitter.
So I'm now going to go back to a day of dot Twitter dot com.
So this is where you'll be if you already have a Twitter account.
And now we're going to go to developers and documentation.
So as always you can spend a bit of time reading this if you want to get more information on how you
can use the Twitter API as you can see there's a number of different ways you can do it.
The way we're going to be working with is off.
So this essentially allows you to authorize yourself as a Twitter user within your app and that will
allow you to view tweets send tweets and do pretty much anything else within the Twitter ecosystem.
And the first thing you need to do to access the Twitter API via oath is create an app and we do that
at apps dot Twitter dot com.
So if you're logged in then it will take you to the Twitter apps page where you probably won't have
any apps.
So we'll create a new one and we're not actually making an app here but we're essentially setting up
credentials for us to be able to log in to the Twitter API.
So we'll just fill in these details.
So I'll just call it my Twitter API app
this is a demo app for the Twitter API.
I'll just put a placeholder here.
Twitter app demo dot com.
I don't know if there's a Web site there and we'll leave the callback you Arel blank.
We're not going to be using that and we'll agree to the terms and conditions and create our Twitter
application.
And one thing I do need to add my mobile phone number to Twitter and we do that on the main Twitter
Web sites.
So I'm just going to go to Twitter dot com
and then on to my little symbol there.
I'll click Settings and then mobile
and I'll just pause the recording while I answer my my phone number.
And now that's done.
Let's go back over to create an application and attempted again or we're getting very close just need
to put in.
I would just put a random number at the end of that
and then we'll try again.
And we've got it.
All right.
And the main thing we're interested in here are our keys.
So if we click manage keys and access tokens you can see we've got I can see and I can show you my secrets.
And these are two API keys and this one you can make public if you want but the secret you should very
much keep private because anyone who has access to that will be able to access everything that you can
do within your app.
So our last thing to do here in the Twitter website is to create an access token which will allow us
to access the Twitter API through this app.
And there we go.
So once again we've got a token and a secret.
And the reason you have an access token as well as an API key is because you might want to access the
Twitter API from a number of different places from your Web site from your app or from somewhere else
and you might therefore want to have a different access token for each of those ups.
OK.
So now we've set up everything that we need for our Twitter app.
We now need to write the code to connect to it.
Now fortunately there is a great HP library that we can use to do the hard work of connecting to the
API.
And we can find that by searching for something like Twitter or THP
and this will take you to the Twitter page on get help.
As always you can read more about that at the home page Twitter Warth dot com but we're just going to
download it and make a start with it.
There are basic instructions that in case you have any problems with this particular version.
I've also saved a version on the Web site for this course and there's a link to that in the next lecture
so you can use that version if you prefer.
But for now we'll just download zip and they'll save it on the desktop and then will unzip it.
And we'll have a quick look inside.
So there we go.
You can see we've got a bunch of p p p files which we will of course need to upload to our server.
So back over the fire FTB and I'm just going to click on the to our Warth master folder and then click
the arrow to upload everything within that wonderful.
So let's have a look then at Twitter Warth dot com and see how we set this up.
We're not using composer here.
So we'll scroll down to the old fashioned way which is just downloading and uploading to our server
and then you can see we've got here are two lines of code that will need it's pretty simple.
So we just require which is essentially the same as including
I'm going to get rid of everything here.
So it will require that but bear in mind this link is slightly different here so I'm just going to rename
that.
So right click and rename.
So it's just Twitter off
and then that should match that and then we'll just use that bit of code.
And then it's these two lines of code that we're going to need.
So I'll paste those in and we're going to need to replace these without various access tokens.
So let's get all of those set up what I normally do is set those at the beginning of our code so we
don't have them kind of deeply embedded.
So I will start with the consumer key.
So that's equal to that and we've got consumer secret
which is equal say this long thing
and we've got access token
which is this
and access tokens secrets
which is that.
And be careful not to copy but a little space at the end of mine that that's not part of it.
So then I'll just replace these with my variable names.
So I can see I'm a key consumer Secret
Access taken
access taken secret and there we go.
So the only change I'm going to make here is just to print content there to see what is returned by
the Twitter API when we attempt to verify the credentials and the full notice.
I've actually got a couple of other bit of blank space there.
So it's very easy to get by when you're copying and pasting the access codes.
So make sure you've got rid of any spaces and line breaks and then open this up in a new tab and we'll
just jump over to the same page pages before.
Keep your fingers crossed and there we go.
So if you've done everything right we'll just view the source.
You should get something that looks like this.
So you get the name screen name and a bunch of other information about that particular user.
Wonderful.
So all looking good so far.
Let's see if we can get the tweets of this person.
So first off I'm going to jump to Twitter and make a quick tweet so that we've got something on our
timeline.
This is my first tweet.
Inspirational stuff.
OK.
So now if we go back to Twitter Warth com we can then scroll down and we can see how it actually works.
So once we've done the overall.
It actually works in quite a similar way to the Google Maps API.
Essentially we've got a U R L that we need to access to do something because we're accessing this for
a while so we don't just use file contents.
We use this method here.
So connection and then get.
So let's try that out.
So instead of
printing content or print status is and you've got a fairly obvious couple of variables there that count
is counted equal to 25 and exclude replies.
It's true
so let's have a look we.
This is looking good.
Again move you source to make it a bit clearer and then you can see we've got this is my first tweet
there.
And we've got a bunch of other information about the tweets as well like where it came from the user
and the date and time as well.
Excellent.
So we're looking good.
The last thing I want to show you is how to post to the API and specifically how to send a tweet.
So let's go back to Twitter.
Dot com.
And here we go.
So it's as simple as this.
We just post instead of get and we're posting a status update and then we're adding our new status which
is essentially our new tweet.
So let's do that just before we get the tweets and then we should be able to see it.
All right.
This came from my Twitter app
wonderful.
All right let's take a look.
Well refresh that's looking promising.
OK so great.
This came from my Twitter app.
Definitely seems to have been returned.
Let's have a look on Twitter itself and with any luck it should be there.
Wonderful.
So in just a few minutes we've set up a new app that we can use to connect to Twitter and we can view
the user's timeline and send tweets as well.
And then the next video we're going to put this together to make a small but very functional Twitter
client.